Hello, I'm Kevin Calhoune of Apple's
Interactive Media Group,
and this is session 722,
Preparing and Delivering
Video for iPhone,
Safari, and Apple TV,
also known as the session with multiple
punctuation marks in its title,
which means it must be really,
really great.
[Transcript missing]
So what you'll learn here,
you will learn how to prepare your video
assets for delivery to the platforms
of interest during this conference,
iPhone, Apple TV, and web,
so how to encode it and so forth.
But also,
we'll touch upon all of the options
that you have for delivering
your content to those platforms,
including custom applications,
including podcasts.
But we're going to give most
of the emphasis during this
session on web delivery.
We're going to be talking about the
kinds of options that you have for
integrating your content into web apps,
both what you can do today and what
you can look forward to in the future,
including how to give behavior
to your video in your web apps
so that it integrates well
with other types of content.
And part of that look ahead that
I promised pertains to HTML5.
Okay, so what technology frameworks
are we going to be related
to during this session?
All right, for audiovisual standards,
that MPEG-4 body of standards
that I mentioned for encoding
and container formats,
we'll be talking about QuickTime's,
Apple's implementation of those standards
in the product known as QuickTime.
We'll also touch upon web standards,
obviously, HTML for markup,
CSS for styling and presentation,
JavaScript for behavior,
and we'll talk about Apple's
implementation of those
standards in WebKit and Safari.
And since we're going to be
talking about custom apps as well,
we'll talk about the application
frameworks that you will need to use
to build custom apps on Mac OS X,
on iPhone, and for Windows as well.
So it's a packed session.
I hope you're all strapped in.
We're going to start with the raw
specifications for video encoding
for these various platforms.
We're going to tell you the bitrates and
everything just because we think some
of you are curious and also because some
of you are using tools that give you
broad options across the profiles that
these various encoding formats support.
And you might need to know practically
what settings to use with these
encoders when you're creating
material for these platforms.
Also, some of you might be
implementers of encoding tools,
and you might want to integrate
into those tools the ability to
target these platforms specifically.
So we'll give you information
about how to do that.
And that's how we start.
So for the next set of slides,
I'm going to be giving you the most
oppressive and information-laden
portion of the session,
and I was chosen to do this because
I'm the most oppressive member
of your presentation team today.
Well-suited for the task,
let's start with iPhone.
The video encoding that we recommend
for iPhone is H.264 encoding.
The iPhone supports up
to the baseline profile,
level 3.0,
which by itself implies that the
dimensions that it supports are up to
640 by 480 at 30 frames per second.
And you may also know that baseline
profile also implies that B-frames
are not supported on this platform,
although you can achieve really good
quality video without the B-frames
at these resolutions on that device.
[Transcript missing]
For example,
if you have video at a 16:9 aspect ratio,
typical for high def,
you might choose to encode it
for iPhone at a scaled down size,
preserving its aspect
ratio of 480 by 270.
You should be aware that when you
deliver that video to the iPhone,
the user has two options
for the way this might look.
The user can choose to view it
at its original aspect ratio.
And in this case,
since the video is a little
wider than the device,
it will be displayed letterboxed with
unused pixels at the top and the bottom
not needed for the video display.
But the standard transport
controls on the iPhone allow
the user to zoom that up.
To fill the screen.
And what that will look
like would be this.
Zooming up to fill the
screen in this case means,
since the video is
wider than the display,
cutting off the left side and
the right-hand side of the video.
You should be aware that
users have this option,
so if you're producing content
specifically for the iPhone,
you might not want to put vital
information far to the left or
far to the right of the frame.
Okay, that's the basics of what you
need to know if you are encoding
content for delivery to the iPhone.
Let's move on to something after
a punctuation mark in our title.
If you are targeting video for Apple TV,
this is a different device.
It supports up to high-def quality video.
It looks really good when you
plug it into your high-definition
flat-screen monitor.
Apple TV supports same
family of video encoding,
H.264,
up to the progressive main profile,
level 3.1.
What does this mean?
This means that you have sizes
available of 1280x720 at 24 fips.
That's 720p at 24 fips.
Or if you need a higher frame rate,
up to 30 fips, you have to encode at a
slightly smaller size.
960x540 will work well
at 30 frames per second.
That profile implies that
B frames are supported,
and you will definitely want to use
them in order to achieve the necessary
data rates with resolutions that large.
Audio on the Apple TV.
Again, AACLC up to 48 kilohertz
is supported on Apple TV,
but you also have the option
on Apple TV if you happen to be
producing content for delivery to
other types of hardware for which
you are creating Dolby Digital audio.
You can deliver that to Apple TV as well,
starting with Apple TV 2.0.
Container formats supported by Apple TV.
QuickTime movie files are supported.
MPEG-4 files are supported.
And the M4V variant of
MPEG-4 also supported.
Same as iPhone on Apple TV, MPEG-4 video,
MPEG-4 Part 2 video, that is,
is supported.
And all iPod playable content is
playable on the Apple TV as well.
So our table for
Apple TV looks like this.
Again, the maximums listed here might
not be appropriate for you,
and in particular in this case,
not all the maximums are
achievable simultaneously.
You'll have to recall that at 24
frames -- at the largest sizes,
the highest frame rate available
is 24 frames per second.
If you need a higher frame rate,
you got to scale down just a little bit.
Other important point here,
data rate that you can
achieve on the Apple TV.
A sustained data rate of 5
megabits per second is what
we recommend for the encoding.
But just as happens with production
video content for other devices as well,
if you have a cut in the video and
you want to play smoothly across
that cut and things are changing,
you need a high-quality
intraframe right after that cut,
the device supports local
maximum spikes in the encoding
of up to 12 megabits per second.
So you can tweak those important points
in your encoding up to that data rate.
All right,
two hardware devices we covered, iPhone,
Apple TV.
Now...
The third platform that we are talking
about in this session today is the web.
But we have to remember that these days,
web delivery does not imply
a specific class of devices.
Desktop users can connect to
the web by any number of means.
High-speed connections, broadbands,
lower network connections as well
are possible from desktop machines.
But whole new classes of devices
have become common that also are
capable of connecting to the web,
and they have a different set of
constraints on video and code.
coatings.
There's a wide range.
However, the standard that we've adopted
at Apple for video encoding,
H.264, has solutions,
has sweet spots across the entire range
of devices and network speeds that you
will be encoding for for your users,
regardless of the device
that they are using.
So, the encoding varies by device,
but the formats that we
recommend are the same.
Again, H.264 video,
give you more details in a moment
about the range that we recommend.
For audio, again,
AACLC up to 48 kHz is supported on all
the devices that we're talking about.
Same list of container formats,
but on the desktop,
those have web connections
from desktop machines,
actually can make use of additional
container formats as well.
In particular,
all the container formats as
supported by QuickTime 7 are
available in case you have legacy
content in any of those formats.
But we recommend QuickTime movie files,
MPEG-4 and M4V,
just as for the other devices,
and 3GP for the low data rate stuff.
All right,
a little more information about
the range that we're talking about.
We're talking about really
small to really large.
3GP mobile device on something
like the Edge Network,
the most appropriate encoding
that you might want to use,
something like 176 by 144 maximum size
at 64 kilobits per second for the video,
total of 80 kilobits per second
for the audio plus video.
That's a pretty narrow pipe,
but you can deliver good quality
stuff across that connection.
All the way to the high end
where we're talking about
something like an HD trailer,
like the kind that you can
see on Apple's trailer site,
up to 1080p, 1920 by 1080 dimensions,
up to 8 to 10 megabits per
second sustained data write.
That's achievable if you have a
fast enough network connection
for delivery via the web.
You probably would only have a
restricted set of users that are
actually capable of keeping up with
that amount of data coming across,
but it's doable for certain applications.
Thank you.
What if you want to deliver just one
encoding that can span this entire range
of devices and network connections?
What's our recommendation?
Well, you've probably noticed from the
prior slides that all of the devices
that are capable of connecting
to the web that we're talking
about support iPhone encoding.
So you can just say,
create an encoding suitable for iPhone,
you can deliver that in a web app,
and that will work everywhere.
Now, that won't take full advantage,
of course,
of the horsepower and the bandwidth
that's available to top-end devices.
So we recommend that you can choose
to create more than one encoding.
If you don't have constraints
on server space or on bandwidth,
you can create multiple encodings for
the same content and make sure that
the appropriate users are viewing
the appropriate encoding by something
that we call a QuickTime Render.
So,
let's talk about the QuickTime Render.
A QuickTime Render is
essentially a table of contents.
And when a QuickTime Render is opened,
the user agent or QuickTime,
whatever happens to be
reading the QuickTime Render,
will take a look at that
table of contents and say,
"Hey,
if my network connection is this fast,
I'm supposed to go to this
URL and view this movie.
If my network connection is this fast,
I should choose this one." There are
other switches that are possible
as well in this table of contents,
according to device,
according to encoding,
and according to the reference movies.
So, if you have a reference movie that's
a good example of a decoding format
supported on the end user's device,
this reference movie, for example,
could give you the option of viewing one
URL for an iPhone on an edge connection,
another URL for an iPhone
on a Wi-Fi connection,
and yet a third URL for a desktop
machine with a broadband connection,
capable of decoding H.264 main profile.
We'll talk about how you can create
these reference movies in just a minute.
But first,
let's talk about how you can use
some common tools to create this
whole range of encodings without
having to know any of the raw
detail that we just talked about.
So, we're moving away from
the oppressive detail,
and we're talking more
about the cool tools.
QuickTime Pro allows you to create
all of the kinds of material,
all of the encodings
that I've talked about,
really easy.
It has what are known as movie exporters
built right into it that allow you
just to choose export to iPhone
and the result will be appropriate,
or export to Apple TV and so forth.
These movie exporters are really
accessible in QuickTime Pro,
really easy for you to get
to from QuickTime Player.
But it's possible for other applications
using the QuickTime framework to make
these same exporters available as well.
So it's possible in custom tools or in
tools from other vendors to have these
same easy-to-use features for export
targeting these particular platforms.
For creating reference movies,
once you have the various encodings,
we have two options for you.
One, we have a feature in
QuickTime Player called Export for Web,
which takes care of a lot of stuff.
We're going to demo that
for you in a moment.
We also have a tool that you
can use called MakeRefMovie.
This is available from the
QuickTime Developer Tools site
that you can navigate to
on the ADC pages at Apple.
MakeRefMovie allows you to create
a reference movie by hand with
whatever complex set of switches,
no matter how many encodings you
decide to prepare for your users.
All right, a little more detail about
how to get to this stuff.
QuickTime players, export components,
as I mentioned,
are standard in QuickTime.
The ones that we're going
to be talking about here,
movie to iPhone,
that will create exactly the type of
encoding that's appropriate for an
iPhone connected to the network via WiFi.
Same encoding parameters that
I just mentioned earlier.
Approximately one megabit per second,
up to 480 by 360 to take advantage
of that data rate for the actual
display capabilities of the device.
Movie to iPhone Cellular will create
an M4V file that will work if the
iPhone's connection is the Edge network.
Lower data rate, still good quality.
I'll mention Movie to iPod,
which is another one of these
exporters that's available.
From the earlier slides,
you know that all the devices that we're
talking about support iPod encodings.
You can choose this exporter as well
if you want to create one encoding
that's suitable for all this stuff.
And the parameters of the encoding that
will be created are given to you there.
Finally, however, if you want,
for some reason,
if you use one of these exporters
and they don't precisely give
you exactly what you want,
you can use the Movie to MPEG-4 exporter,
which gives you access to more settings
that you can tweak to suit you.
Movie to MPEG-4
Looks a little bit like this.
You open up your asset
in QuickTime Player Pro.
Then you choose
Export from the File menu.
Up comes this panel.
It includes the pop-up menu in the panel
for the exporters that you can choose,
the ones that I just mentioned.
For example,
you can choose Movie to MPEG-4.
Those exporters that
have additional features,
additional settings will
display an additional panel.
This is the panel for Movie to MPEG-4.
Here you can choose the data rate,
for example, of your H.264 encoding.
You can choose MPEG-4 video instead of
H.264 if that's more suitable to you.
For example,
if you were encoding to iPhone,
you would want to click on
the Video Options button
and you would want to say,
"For iPhone, I know because I went to
session 722 that for iPhone,
I need to encode at the baseline
profile of H.264." Other things are
tweakable there as well so that you
can create an encoding to suit you.
Kevin Calhoun, Jeremy Farbaugh,
Eric Carlson, Mike Czepiel But suppose
you're not a video editor and
you want to encode to H.264,
then you can choose MPEG-4 video instead
of H.264 if that's more suitable to you.
For example,
if you were But suppose you're not
interested in all those details,
you want to use the one-click feature
that takes care of all this for you,
that's Export4Web in QuickTime Player.
And Jeremy Farabagh,
known as the Code topiarist -- and you
know I had a little bit of water before
coming up here so I can say that -- is
going to show you what Export4Web will
do for you in QuickTime Player Pro.
Jeremy?
Jeremy Farabagh: Hi.
Thanks.
I'm Jeremy Farabagh.
I'm a developer for the
QuickTime Player Pro team.
And QuickTime Player introduced recently
a new feature called Export for Web,
as Kevin said,
that allows you to export up to
three different platform-appropriate
versions of your content.
And I'm going to demo
it for you right now,
just quickly.
Okay, so here I've got a little bit of
the movie Last Time I Saw Paris,
and I want to make a single version
that's appropriate for the iPhone,
iPhone over Edge, and for the desktop.
So up here from the File menu,
I'm going to choose Export for Web,
which will pop down a sheet with
just a limited number of options.
I'm going to call this Last Time,
and it lets you choose between three
different versions of your exported
movies appropriate for the phone,
for the iPhone over the Edge network,
and for the desktop.
The desktop version will
be also great for Apple TV.
If you have a movie with a poster frame,
you can choose either that or the current
frame of the movie from which you'll
create a poster image if you're going
to use this for embedding into a website.
When I click Export,
the player is going to start
three different exports.
It shouldn't take too long
since it's a very small clip.
And it'll create those three exported
versions plus one reference movie
that wraps them all up together.
It'll also create an HTML file,
which demonstrates how you would
embed this movie into a web page.
It includes a little bit of JavaScript,
a little bit of HTML,
and you can just copy and paste
these into your web page from
whatever text editor you like,
or your blog for that matter.
And what you'll get is something
that looks very much like this.
Right now it's just an image.
You click on it and it will
switch over to a movie.
Great scene.
Okay.
And there you have it.
Very simple.
Thanks, Jeremy.
We'll be giving you more details
in just a little bit about the
markup that Export4Web creates
and a little more details about
the JavaScript that's available.
But if you just put that on your website,
you're good to go.
So that's tools in QuickTime Pro that
are available to prepare
video for these platforms.
You might be using professional
strength video editing tools such
as Apple's Final Cut Studio Pro,
Final Cut Pro Studio.
There, I got it right the second time.
These tools have lots more options
for the preparation of video.
In particular,
you can not only prepare audio
and video for these platforms,
you can use this suite of tools
also if you have closed caption
information in your source assets.
You can bring that all the way
through to your source assets.
You can also use this suite of
tools to prepare video for delivery
to each one of these platforms,
iPhone, Apple TV,
and the full range of web-capable
devices using this suite of tools.
If you're preparing material for these
platforms with Final Cut Pro Studio,
the application you use to
encode is known as Compressor 3.
Compressor 3 has a similar set
of options built into it just
like QuickTime Player earlier.
It looks like this.
For example,
you can choose to encode H.264 video for
Apple devices in this particular example.
For example,
we're encoding for iPhone cellular
using the same kinds of settings
we saw earlier suitable for
delivery over the edge network.
Or here's what it would look like if
you're encoding for iPhone via Wi-Fi.
So that rich set of features
is built into the professional
strength tools as well.
However, you might not be adopting either
of these two sets of tools,
the QuickTime Player tools or
the Final Cut suite of tools.
Instead, you might have a custom suite of
tools that you're using in-house
for your production process.
Or you might be using
tools from other vendors.
And you might be interested
in integrating the same export
facilities into those tools.
How do you do it?
Here's a code snippet for
doing that on Mac OS X.
We recommend the use of QtKit together
with a Cocoa application for you
to be able to manipulate media,
in particular,
to write it out in these formats
that we're talking about.
All you need to do to accomplish
this in your application is to
instantiate QtMovie by pointing it
to your asset via QtMovie init with
file or QtMovie init with attributes,
as you saw this morning
at the QtKit sessions.
Once you have an instance of QtMovie,
exporting it is as easy as
invoking the method QtMovie
write to file with attributes.
The with attributes
parameter is a dictionary.
Inside that dictionary,
you would have a key that says
this is an export operation.
And another attribute that says
the exporter I want you to use,
in this case on the wall,
is the iPhone exporter.
And with this amount of code,
you can add that feature
to your applications.
So, now we know how to make the media.
So, let's go ahead and start.
Question is,
how do you get it to the audience
that has interest in this media?
Well, a wide variety of options,
and we're going to cover
them all in this one session.
First off,
Delivery to iPhone and Apple TV.
Several options are
available on these platforms.
First off, in particular,
if you have commercial video content,
video content for sale,
you can distribute it to your
users of these platforms by
means of the iTunes Store.
This is more of a business
arrangement than a technical thing.
You'd want to get in touch with
the iTunes Store folks in order
to initiate that distribution.
It's available and you
should be aware of it.
Another way to distribute video
by means of iTunes is to set up
and maintain a video podcast feed.
You make your video available from
whatever servers you happen to
have and allow users to browse your
podcast together with other podcasts
of interest in iTunes and other
podcast-capable applications as well.
How do you set up a podcast
feed and maintain it?
One recommendation is a tool
that's part of Mac OS X's server,
part of the QuickTime streaming server
suite of tools known as Podcast Producer.
It has a lot of features in it
that help with the preparation
of the content and also in the
maintenance of the podcast feed.
We'll give you a reference later
on for how you can find out more
about using Podcast Producer.
GarageBand is a very good tool which
many of you are already aware is
capable of producing audio podcasts.
But beyond that,
it has features that allow you
to associate images with specific
ranges of the audio in your podcast.
You can use it to create audio-visual
podcasts in GarageBand as well.
It's something to check out.
Finally, I asked for some recommendations
for third-party tools that are
relevant for video podcasts.
What I was told is that Pulp Motion by
Aquafotis is a great tool to check out.
It lets you create a lot of
interesting content very easily,
suitable for delivery as a video podcast.
Okay, one method of delivery then,
that's iTunes.
Users can browse iTunes
directly on Apple TV.
They can browse iTunes on the desktop,
sync with their devices.
That's good distribution.
That'll work for lots of content.
But another option for delivering
video content to your end users is
for you to write a custom application.
You may want to do this if you
need to access specific hardware
features of the platform that
you're interested in building for.
Or you might just want better
control over the integration of
video content with other things
going on in your application.
It has some feature, some tool,
some manipulation of data,
and you want video to be part of that.
What do you use to build
applications that integrate video?
Depends on the platform.
On Mac OS X, just mentioned earlier,
our recommendation is QtKit.
QtKit allows you to open
media and play it back.
It also allows you,
if you want to make this available,
to users of your application.
Some editing operations
that are available too.
Those of you who are in this room during
lunch hour saw the Michael Johnson of
Pixar showing some uses of QtKit that
allow you to do editing of content,
not just playback.
Capture is also available
in this framework as well,
so that you can bring
assets in from cameras,
for example, and then re-encode them.
For more information about how
to use QtKit for these purposes,
look on the web for the
QuickTimeKit framework reference and
all the details about the richness of
those classes is there in that document.
Let me skip over iPhone for a second
since it's the newest of the custom
application platforms that we're
talking about this week to Windows.
Yes,
you can take the encodings that we've
talked about here and deliver them
in a custom application on Windows.
You can do that by means of QuickTime.
QuickTime 7, everywhere that it's
installed on Windows,
includes the QuickTime ActiveX control.
And you would use that control
in your Windows application,
just like any other control,
to associate content and to manage it.
The QuickTime ActiveX control allows you
to control media playback in your app.
It also has some features
for editing as well,
if that's what you need.
The QuickTime 7 for Windows update
guide has all the information
that you need to learn how to
use the QuickTime ActiveX control,
the features of that class,
in your application.
So iPhone, what is available in the
iPhone SDK for controlling
media playback on that device?
The SDK includes a media player,
and the class is known as the
MP Movie Player Controller,
and with that class,
you can make use of full-screen video
playback with the same transport
controls as available elsewhere on
the device in your custom application.
Because this is so new,
it's been covered in
other sessions this week,
but I want to give you a quick
look at what this class looks like
and the options that it exposes.
MPMoviePlayerController allows you
to initialize from a URL the video
content that you want to display.
It allows you to initiate playback
and to stop it at its current time.
Via some properties on this class,
you can set or discover
the current scaling mode.
Remember we talked earlier about
the two scaling modes that are
available on iPhone for video.
So if you want to interact
with that in your app,
you can.
Also, you have the choice of whether or
not you want the user to have access
to the standard video controls.
Perhaps your application doesn't want the
user to zoom in or out or to change the
time that's currently being displayed.
You have that option as well.
Finally,
via the notifications up on the wall,
you can monitor the state
of the media playback.
You can discover what mode of
scaling the video is currently in.
And you can also discover when
the video is played through.
So if you want something to be initiated
automatically in your application
when the video is done playing,
you can listen for that
and respond appropriately.
So, custom applications,
multiple platforms.
I promised that the bulk of
the session was going to be
devoted to delivery for the web.
And that's what we're going
to talk about from here on in.
We find that delivery of video to the web
is extremely rich and also very scalable
across the devices that we've discussed.
We're going to talk about
how to use technology that's
already broadly disseminated,
broadly distributed to end users
with QuickTime in order to do that.
And we're going to have a look
ahead at emerging technology that
will make the whole process easier.
The first thing I want to note
is that this will all work,
everything we recommend,
on Safari for iPhone.
And it will also work in any browser
that supports plugins running on a
machine on which QuickTime is installed.
Browsers such as Safari for Mac,
Safari for Windows,
Firefox for either platform, Opera,
Internet Explorer.
So, lots of users can be reached
by means of the recommendations
that we have for you here.
What do you need to know in order to
set up and prepare delivery for the web?
Well, we covered all the details
about preparing the media,
including providing a reference
movie that allows you to deploy
multiple encodings that different
users will see depending on
the type of device we're using.
So you already know that.
You'll also want us to cover
how to incorporate video
into your HTML document.
We'll cover that briefly in a moment.
You'll want to know what the
further integration possibilities
are possible in video.
We'll talk about the
JavaScript methods that are available.
We'll talk also about the DOM events
that are emitted so that you can
coordinate in your page things that are
happening in the video with things that
are happening elsewhere in the page.
And finally,
we'll have some practical notes for
administrators of web servers to
make sure that the video will be
delivered in the best and smoothest
possible fashion to your users.
So, we talked about preparation.
Don't need to cover that again.
How to integrate video in HTML markup.
You may have seen this type of example
in the past using an embed tag,
which is commonly used in order to say,
"Oh, I want to load a plug-in to manage
this content." And this embed
example will work in many browsers.
However,
it is not the most compatible form
of markup that we recommend that
you use for the full breadth of
browsers and browser versions that
have been developed over the years.
Our best recommendation for
you is instead of using an
embed tag like you just saw,
to make use of a JavaScript library
which Apple distributes and you
can redeploy on any site on which
you might happen to need it.
By invoking this JavaScript library's
QT_WriteObject function,
the markup will be generated by that
JavaScript implementation that is most
compatible with the widest variety
of browsers and browser versions.
Kevin Calhoun, Jeremy Farbaugh,
Eric Carlson, Mike Czepiel So,
if you want to use a script tag,
you would use a script
tag in your markup.
And inside the script tag,
you would invoke the
QT_WriteObject function.
And instead of attributes
of the embed tag,
you would pass parameters to
this function that control
the display of the video,
what URL for the resource that
you want the video to come from,
how do you want it displayed, scaled,
or fixed size, and so forth.
All of that you can pass to the function.
And the markup,
the compatible markup will be
generated on the fly as the page loads.
Now, if for some reason you're
running in a context in which
JavaScript is not permitted,
or if you just want to have
finer-grained control over the markup
that you use in your web pages,
this is the markup that
that function will generate,
the most compatible form of invocation
of a plugin that we are aware of.
It's an object tag on the outer part
and inside fall back to an embed tag.
So browsers that support the
object tag will pick up the
parameters for the video from that,
but browsers that don't will fall
back to the contained embed tag and
pick up the information for that.
That guarantees that things will
work in a wide variety of contexts.
So, finally,
you want to serve this stuff up so that
users can view it without any glitches.
How to avoid glitches in web serving
for video 101 right here on this slide.
If you are a web server administrator,
please take note of
these recommendations.
We find over the years that many of
the bugs that end users file against
QuickTime when they run into trouble
viewing content on the web have to
do with misconfigured web servers,
in particular, MIME types.
So please take note of this.
First of all,
some of the platforms that we're
talking about today depend on
byte range access to video.
Video can be of great duration
and very large in size.
And in fact, on some of these platforms,
you can actually play video content
that doesn't even fit in the
storage capacity of the device.
Obviously, in order to load chunks
of that video at a time,
we want to issue byte range
requests against the HTTP server.
So please turn that off.
Kevin Calhoun, Jeremy Farbaugh,
Eric Carlson,
Mike Czepiel You can test whether
a particular server supports
HTTP requests in the Mac OS X terminal
app by issuing that curl command.
It'll print out an error if
byte range is turned off.
If so, please consult the documentation
of your web server to turn it on.
Kevin Calhoun, Jeremy Farbaugh,
Eric Carlson, Mike Czepiel I mentioned
MIME type associations.
Please make sure these are right.
.mp4 files should be served
with MIME type video slash mp4.
If your server is serving them
with MIME type text slash plain,
you can issue byte range
requests against the server.
your users may not get the
experience that you intend.
Finally, video's getting bigger.
Resolutions are getting larger.
Sizes are growing all the time.
In fact, hosting for personal use on the
web is getting larger as well.
We just announced this week,
MobileMe is expanding to 20
gigabytes is the standard
amount of storage you can have.
End users in their own homes can
be creating video that's larger
than 2 gigabytes and serving
it from their personal spaces
on any of a number of services.
So please check that you support
downloads of greater than 2
gigabytes on your web server,
and that will make everything smooth.
That's all the basic information
for incorporating video into HTML.
What does it look like?
Eric has a simple example for HTML4.
Eric Carlson is not the only worker in
the interactive media group at Apple,
but he's one of the primary ones.
So Eric is going to come
up and show you this now.
Eric Carlson.
As Kevin said, I'm also a member of the
Interactive Media Group.
What we're going to look at here is
a really simple example of embedded
video in the context of a web page.
So we have a web page here about a movie.
And so, of course,
it would be useful to have
a snippet of the movie here.
You've got the standard
Playback controls,
you can start the movie,
you can stop the movie,
you can change its volume.
And if we look at the source of the page,
Let's scale it up a little bit.
You can see that we've used the
recommended technique that Kevin was just
talking about in the part of the markup
where we want the movie to show up.
We have a call to the
QT write object tag.
We pass in the URL of the movie.
We set the width and the height.
We set the scale.
We set some various things.
And with that little bit of markup,
we have a page where the movie content
integrates nicely with the text.
For example, if we change the size
of the text in the page,
the browser relays out the page
and tells the plugin element
that its size has changed.
Using a keyboard shortcut here,
I can scale it up and down.
And you can see that it flows nicely
as the content on the page changes.
We also have some Ahrefs here which
link to a simple JavaScript function.
So when I click on an Ahref,
it changes the time of the movie and
really integrates the video content
in with the content of the page with
really just a little bit of a change.
So when I click on an Ahrefs,
it changes the time of the movie and
really just a little bit of a change.
Okay,
so that gives you an example of what you
can do with very simple markup in HTML4.
We cut for time, can you believe it?
We had more content that
could fit in 75 minutes.
And we had to cut for time constraints.
Some richer example is deployment
of video using the QuickTime plugin,
but you may be aware of them.
There are plenty out there
available on the public internet.
If you are interested in finding out
more about the JavaScript interface of
the QuickTime plugin or more details
about the markup that you would use,
you can go to the following resources.
From apple.com/quicktime,
navigate from there to QuickTime Pro and
from there to tutorials,
and there are a couple of interesting
things there about embedding
that you might want to look at.
Or if you want a copy of the full
reference for JavaScript scripting
of the QuickTime plugin,
start at apple.com/quicktime,
go from there to developer, to guides,
and then to scripting and automation,
and we have a document for you
there called JavaScript Scripting
Guide for QuickTime that can tell
you everything that you need to do,
everything you need to know to achieve
richer integration even than Eric was
able to show you with that simple demo.
What I want to highlight, though,
is that the same markup that we've
just been showing you and this
many of the same scripts that are
covered in the JavaScript document
also work on the iPhone.
Safari for iPhone has been implemented
to be compatible with the markup for
video that we've just recommended.
So when it encounters the
object and embed tags,
that's the same thing that
we've just recommended.
So when it encounters the
object and embeds tags,
it's the same thing that
we've just recommended.
So when it encounters the
object and embeds tags,
it's the same thing that we've just
And for the first time in iPhone 2.0,
we have JavaScript control over
video in Safari for iPhone.
And also, video will emit DOM events
so your page can keep track,
your document can keep track of
things that are going on in the
video on that device in Safari.
So for example,
you can initiate playback,
you can initiate full screen,
stop playback, exit full screen with a
JavaScript interface available
on Safari for iPhone.
And there are,
in addition to a subset of the methods
and DOM events available on the desktop,
there are some that are peculiar,
particular to the iPhone that
allow you to control or monitor
the full screen state as well.
So lots of great stuff you can
now do integrating video with your
web pages for Safari for iPhone.
Now,
I promised you earlier in the session,
I was going to tell you that we
recommend standards for video.
But now the last 10 or 15 minutes
of the session has been all about
this QuickTime plugin thing.
And what's that?
Well,
that's a module that's available from
Apple that has its own unique API and
its own unique attributes that you
treat in its own unique way when you're
taking advantage of it in your HTML.
Well, that doesn't sound very standard,
now does it?
It's very rich.
It's wonderful to use.
It's broadly distributed
and extremely reliable.
But it falls short of the standard
story that I promised you earlier on.
We've achieved interoperability
of standards for video encoding
and video container formats,
as well as interoperability of
a number of delivery protocols.
However, we recognize that we
have not yet achieved,
up till HTML4, standards for integration
of video content in the web.
How are we going to get there?
Well, what we've done,
together with other interested parties,
is pooled our experience, in our case,
our experience with the QuickTime plugin,
and we put our experience together
into a draft specification for
what we think video should be
like in standard HTML markup,
what kind of behavior it should
have in the standard DOM.
And this specification is now
in draft form and part of HTML5.
In other words, HTML5 includes,
for the first time,
standard video and audio elements that
you can treat as just another type of
content that any user agent can support,
with the same rich set of features
that a user agent is able to
apply to any other element.
We think this is going
to be really great.
In fact, so great that we've already
implemented a portion of the
draft specification in Safari 3.1,
and, of course, its follow-on release,
Safari 3.1.
So all of this stuff related to the
video tag in HTML5 that you see here,
you can go home and try right
away with Safari 3.1 or later.
Now, when you have video managed by an
element that's built into the DOM,
you have very rich
integration possibilities,
not just the kinds of things
that are possible with plugins,
but further synchronization with
other things going on in the page.
If the user agent is able to do that,
if the user agent is
aware of time-based media,
that it can give you information about
the flow through time and synchronize
and coordinate things going on
elsewhere in the page as time advances.
Further, the video element can be treated
for composition purposes and
other purposes like anything else,
so you have extreme richness.
The draft of HTML5 is currently available
at the URL given up there on the wall.
We would like you to become
involved as well to participate,
and the further refinement
of this draft specification,
bring your interest for web delivery of
video and audio to the working groups,
review the draft, make suggestions,
help us refine the specification
to make it really great,
broadly implementable across
the full variety of user agents,
browsers that are available to end users.
We think this can be a big success.
Well, what does it look like when
you use HTML5 for video?
Eric is going to start out by showing
you something that will look familiar,
and then we'll get to it.
will move into greater
integration possibilities.
Eric?
So what we're going to start off
with here looks extremely similar to
the demo I showed you a moment ago.
It's the same text.
It's the same content.
But in this case, because I've written
the markup differently,
instead of having the video here be
displayed by the QuickTime plugin,
it's being displayed by Safari itself.
So if I click on the Play button,
you'll see that the movie
controller goes away.
And that's just because that's
the behavior of Safari right now.
But you have the same basic controls.
You can start and stop the movie.
You can seek around in the movie.
We can, again,
jump to different times in the movie.
When I click on these Ahrefs,
I'm calling a JavaScript function
that seeks within the movie.
But if we look at the
source to this page,
We'll see that instead of just
having the call to QT write object,
instead here I have a video element.
On the video element is the optional
attribute that shows the controller.
And then inside of the video element,
I have a pair of source elements.
A source element is what you use
in a video or an audio element.
So if you have a user agent,
you can load the source element
from the user agent and then you
can tell the user agent which
media resource it should load.
In this case,
we have two source elements.
This is the HTML5 way of doing
the equivalent of what you do
with a QuickTime reference movie.
The browser will only load one of these.
The rule is or the behavior is
that it evaluates them in order and
picks the first one that's relevant.
So the first one here,
we have an OGG encoding of the movie.
Safari doesn't support that by default,
so it continues on to the next
one and it's an Mpeng4 encoding.
But the point is that you
can write your markup so that
So that different user agents which
support different encodings still work.
So what I have over here
is a build of Firefox,
an experimental build of
Firefox that includes support
for the video and audio element.
Let me just close this in Safari.
So
Let's scale this up a little bit.
And when I load the same page
that we just saw in Safari 3.1,
you see we get the same thing.
The playback controls are primitive,
but this is just an
experimental version of Firefox.
The point is, in this case,
Firefox does not have an MPEG-4 encoder,
but because I
Included an OGG encoding,
and it has an encoder for that.
It's able to load it and display it.
And again,
as we change the size of the page,
it all just works.
Kevin?
So a couple of things to note about
that markup that Eric just showed.
We talked earlier about
QuickTime reference movies and the
ability to make multiple encodings
available that will be used according
to the suitability of those encodings
to the device and network bandwidth
that was available to the end user.
The source element,
which is specified as a child
element of the video element,
plays the same role in HTML5.
You can provide multiple encodings,
and as Eric mentioned,
the user agent will survey
these encodings by MIME type or
other parameters it can examine.
In particular,
the specification says that you can
include a CSS media query here to define
the suitability of a particular resource,
and the browser can choose the first
one that it hits upon that it knows
how to decode and is suitable for the
current parameters of the context.
So pretty exciting.
The other thing to note about this
markup that Eric mentioned is it
doesn't just use the video tag.
It also has fallback.
It falls back in this case to using
the QuickTime plug-in if you happen
to be running in a browser that
doesn't support the video tag.
So if you were to launch the
current beta version of Firefox 3,
which doesn't yet include this support,
which is due for a later release,
you would fall back to
using the QuickTime plug-in
instead of the video tag.
So pretty clever markup
that you've written there.
So we can do that stuff
with the video tag,
similar to what we can do
with the embed tag for video.
However, how far beyond that can we go?
We took this feature,
the video tag of HTML5,
together with other new features that are
emerging as standards in the web world,
in particular,
CSS effects that are also implemented
for the first time in Safari 3.1,
such as transforms and animations.
And we took them to some
web designers and said,
if you had these facilities in
user agents for integration of
video and for effects on video,
what kind of pages,
what kinds of web apps would you build?
The first example that we have,
we went to some folks who
have their hands on some
assets that are related to it.
It's pretty good stuff.
We know that the same kinds of
composition and the same kinds of
integration are available in other tools,
in other running systems.
So we took them to some
web designers and said,
if you had these facilities in
user agents for integration of
video and for effects on video,
what kind of pages,
what kinds of web apps would you build?
The first example that we have,
we went to some folks who
have their hands on some
assets that are related to it.
It's pretty good stuff.
We know that the same kinds of
composition and the same kinds of
integration are available in other tools,
in other running systems.
So we took them to some folks
who have their hands on some
assets that are related to it.
It's pretty good stuff.
We know that the same kinds of
composition and the same kinds of
integration are available in other tools,
in other running systems.
We know you can use Flash for this.
We know you can use Silverlight for this.
And those are great tools that
are appropriate for many uses.
We know you can use Flash for this.
We know you can use Silverlight for this.
And those are great tools that
are appropriate for many uses.
However, our position on all this is,
why do you have to stop
using your web-based tools,
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript,
just because you want to make use of
video together with images and text?
Our answer is, you shouldn't have to.
You should have the choice of
making use of video and text.
Our answer is, you shouldn't have to.
You should have the choice of
making use of video and text.
shouldn't have to.
You should have the choice of making use
of the same tool set that you already
use for web-borne content when you
have video as well as when you don't.
You can choose those other
options if you want to,
but you can stay with the HTML standards
and do rich things with video,
too.
Well, how practical is it?
These are some examples we
came up with internally,
but we realize there's a transition.
There's a challenge.
Today, we have broadly disseminated
the QuickTime plugin.
We hope that many more browsers
will come online over time to
support these new standards.
You want to deliver your video
regardless of the capabilities that
are available on the particular device
that the end user happens to be using.
So we wanted to do some experiments,
first of all,
in the lab in Cupertino to find
out how practical it is for you
content providers to begin taking
advantage of these emerging standards,
even at the beginning of the year.
So we're going to do some experiments
with the user agent to see how they
can help you with the transition.
So we're going to do some experiments
with the user agent to see how they
can help you with the transition.
So we're going to do some experiments
with the user agent to see how they
can help you with the transition.
So we asked Jeremy to build some
examples that will make use of the
emerging standards when the user
agent supports them and fall back
to the existing broadly distributed
things that you can use if not.
Jeremy, what did you come up with?
Sure.
So the first task was to create a
JavaScript library that would create
a video tag when it was available
and fall back to an embed tag or
an object tag where it was not.
And here's a good
working example of that.
This is just J Random Movie with
a standard controller
and everything like that.
Perfect.
It's using the video tag here.
If I loaded it in Firefox,
it would use the object tag or the embed
tag if it was on Internet Explorer.
So once we have that,
we have a great foundation.
Once we have a piece of
JavaScript library that can integrate
the two video tags and object tags,
we can come up with a common
API for controlling those
movies with something external.
So what can we do with this?
Well, my thought was maybe come up with a
JavaScript DOM-based movie controller to
control the video playback of the movie.
And because I am in the
QuickTime player team,
I think I know what
I wanted it to look like.
So here you have a
JavaScript-based DOM controller,
fully functional,
same as the QuickTime player.
Play, pause, fast forward, rewind,
go to beginning, go to end, mute,
et cetera, et cetera.
And the best part about this just
being a bunch of DOM elements is that
they're completely styleable via CSS.
So these buttons along the top,
all they do is change the class name
of the root DOM element and then
pull in a different set of CSS rules.
So the browser will just re-render
everything the way it's supposed to look.
So here's an example of a
controller that looks a lot
like the one from the Apple.com
Pro site or one from an iPod ad,
or you might recognize this one.
All just via JavaScript and CSS.
So great.
Now we have JavaScript controllers.
We got a common API.
Well, what else could we do?
Why don't we rethink the way that
movies are embedded into your text?
So if you're familiar with a piece of
JavaScript library called Lightbox,
the idea is it provides a way for you
to click on an image and have it pop
up over laying your text as like a
pseudo full screen kind of experience.
But there's no reason we can't
do that with a video tag as well,
or the QuickTime plug-in
where that falls back to.
So here's an example of a website with
some text and a button that one clicked
will pop up a movie on top of the text.
You can see it's scrolling
around here in the background,
providing you with a
JavaScript controller,
close button, et cetera.
So you don't have to have-- especially
useful if you have a lot of these
videos embedded into your website.
OK, so now we have-- let's see,
what do we got?
We got a common video
tag QuickTime library.
We got a JavaScript controller.
We got pop ups.
There's got to be something
else we can do here.
And importantly, if you pull up that
same phone-- I'm sorry,
you pull up that same
web page on the phone,
it's just CSS and DOM.
That's it.
So if I could get the video on the phone,
please.
Okay, here's that same link.
looks completely different,
but has basically the same experience.
You click on a movie,
[Transcript missing]
and all the watched ones
have shown up as watched.
Anyway, some great options for pulling
together media on into your web pages.
Back to you, Kevin.
Kevin Caron: So, Jeremy,
I think when you mentioned
the latest WebKit,
you meant the latest nightly build.
Jeremy Farbaugh:
Latest nightly build of WebKit, yes.
Kevin Caron:
They are hard at work integrating
more of the CSS goodness in nightly
builds of WebKit and that's what
you're taking advantage there.
Jeremy Farbaugh: Yes, that's right.
Kevin Caron: Okay.
So, Jeremy, he works in Cupertino.
He can do this stuff.
The question is,
is it possible to start taking
advantage of this stuff on real websites
on the public Internet right now?
We wanted to run that experiment as well.
And we did.
We chose a website that has millions
of users and terabytes of video
that people access all the time,
really useful stuff,
rich integration with other
content on the website,
good navigation,
currently using the QuickTime plugin.
And we went to one of the developers
of that website and we said,
can you possibly start taking advantage
of this right now with some changes
to your JavaScript libraries probably?
But once you've made those changes, well,
how seamless is the integration?
How difficult is it to achieve?
The person that we asked is
our friend Mike Seeple of
the Apple.com developer team,
the people who bring you all that
great content at www.apple.com.
And he's going to let you know
whether he had any success
doing that with real content.
Jeremy Farbaugh: That's right.
Mike Seeple:
And he's going to let you know whether
he had any success doing that with
real content on that actual website.
Mike?
Mike Seeple: Thanks, Kevin.
Hi, my name is -- Sorry.
Mike Seeple: I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Hi, my name is Mike Czepiel,
and I'm a developer on the
Apple.com technology team.
Last year at the conference,
we had the opportunity to come and talk
briefly about how we use QuickTime on
Apple.com to introduce and promote
some of Apple's hottest products.
Thankfully, the products keep coming,
and so that just means we're
putting more and more video online.
Often, the video on Apple.com is the
person's first real experience
with Apple.com or Apple products,
and so we really want to make sure
we make a good first impression
for the widest audience possible.
So it's really important that we take
all the advice you guys have been hearing
about earlier in the session to heart.
So we use H.264 for the
best quality video we can.
We hand-tune.
We have a mastering code that
hand-tunes all of our videos.
We use RefMovies to serve
the appropriate content,
depending upon the platform or the
user agent the visitors are using.
Of course,
we're also really dependent upon,
we're also really cognizant of
people coming over in varying
bandwidth and different devices,
so we put a lot of effort into making
sure that they get a great experience,
whether you're on a desktop,
a 30-inch display,
or you're using an iPhone
on the train or something,
trying to, over an edge connection,
look at the latest keynote or something.
So of course, with all the video that
we have on Apple.com,
we're really looking forward to all
the improvements that are coming
to make our lives a lot easier.
We're all born and raised on this
web standard such as HTML and CSS,
JavaScript, so we're really looking to
make anything that makes
QuickTime and movies in general a
more integrated part of the page,
a first-class citizen in the
DOM makes our lives a lot easier.
And so I'd like to show you a little
bit of an existing part of Apple.com,
our Find Out How section,
where we've started playing with some
of this and we can talk you through
this If I could get to the demo machine,
please.
Thanks.
So this is an existing part of
our site that you can actually
visit live on apple.com/findouthow,
where new and prospective Mac users
can learn a bit about the platform and
how they can actually do all the things
that we've promised that they can do.
And often, the easiest way to actually
tell people about how to do
anything is just to show them.
So this is a prime example of
where we have tons of video
that are just kind of in here.
All of the video here is all-- Sorry,
this-- --connections, email accounts,
and basic settings.
All the video here is set
up as H.264 with ref movies.
I'm familiar with the Mac.
And we're using just the plug-in here.
Well, we'll get to that.
This is a development version,
like I mentioned.
So under the hood,
there's some special stuff going on.
But basically,
we have the QuickTime controller here.
This is just one of our
JavaScript libraries
that we use to control.
You can interact with it to
scrub through the movies,
as you've seen earlier.
This is akin kind of to Jeremy's stuff.
So it's great that you guys are
going to be able to play with
this yourselves more easily.
I don't have code to give you,
unfortunately.
So you can interact with movies.
You can play them.
You can pause them.
And of course,
you can look for the end of the
movie and act appropriately for
whatever you're trying to do.
Additionally,
we're also using JavaScript APIs.
We use things like the setURL function
to actually change between movies.
So you can just hop between
movies just by selecting new ones.
Additionally,
since it's just this particular demo,
like I mentioned,
is a development version,
that under the hood is actually using the
video element and using the fall-through
to display the video element in
Safari or any browsers that accept that,
or it's using the embedding
objects to rely on the plugin.
The really cool thing is that
with a little bit of code
and engineering on your part,
you can wrap the differences because
they're really not that extreme.
You can use the JavaScript interface
to do things like pull to update
a controller on a page or keep
things in sync with the movie.
You can use the DOM events
for the QuickTime plugin,
and you can also use the
DOM events for the video element.
It just takes a little bit of
code on your part to provide a
consistent interface to people
that are actually building these.
So for instance,
the team that's using the code here,
they don't need to know about
the underlying technology.
So it'll act exactly the same as it
does in Safari as it does in... Firefox.
Exact same thing.
This one's definitely using the plug-in.
And if I can go to the iPhone,
you'll be able to see that
it's actually the exact same.
It's going to work exactly the
same here on the iPhone as well.
Can we have the phone up please?
Can we get the phone displayed?
Thank you.
Okay.
So it's pretty much the exact same
thing where people can come in and
they're presented with a poster frame
and if you're serving your content
correctly with the right mime types
and the phone's able to detect that,
picks up a little bit of the movies,
realizes it can play it,
it'll provide it with a play button
that just pops you into full screen.
So we're really excited about all the
features that are coming in to the HTML5
spec in particular and I'd urge you to,
you know, we're actually considering
putting this in.
I hope to have this stuff
live on Apple.com really soon.
And so we're considering it.
There's no reason you guys can't,
you know,
put this on your own sites and start
tinkering with it and it's a great
way to start getting involved in
the HTML5 process as well because
if you're starting to play with it,
you'll hit some edge cases yourself and
you can give feedback either to us or,
you know, you can get involved in
the spec process yourself.
And, you know,
we're really looking forward
to leveraging all this,
using things like different video
codecs for different browsers to even,
you know, further extend who's able to
watch the videos on Apple.com.
So thank you for all your work, Kevin.
It's looking great.
Thank you, Mike.
We're going to start publishing
some of the JavaScript that you
would use if you want to accomplish
some of this on your own sites.
Jeremy's example will
be published shortly.
It's not available as sample code
and via the typical path right now.
It's going to be made available by
the same means that we currently
distribute that JavaScript library
for embedding that we talk about.
So look for that coming real soon
and you'll get an idea of the types
of scripting methods that you will
need to use in order to bridge
these different technologies.
Okay, told you about standards for
encoding and container formats.
We told you that we were committed
to standards in general and we showed
you that we were moving towards
adoption and promotion of the HTML5
standard for video and also the
emerging CSS standards for styling,
for effects, for mirroring,
for gradients,
all that cool stuff so that video can
be very rich inside of your web apps.
And that's basically where we are right
now and where we're going tomorrow.
So, where can you get more information
relevant to this particular session?
Alan Schaffer is the graphics
technology evangelist.
He can answer questions for you or
give you the right references that
you need if you want to follow up.
But there are additional sessions
that you might want to be aware of
at the conference this week that are
relevant to various portions of my talk.
If you look very closely at this list,
you'll note that only one of
them occurs in the future.
What enables me to put up here
sessions that occurred in the past?
Well, it's because we're going to deliver
video of those sessions to our
Apple Developer Connection members
on the web in the future using
the very same methodologies that we
covered right here in this session.
So, you'll be able to review those
sessions in the future by that means.
If you want to know more
about Podcast Producer,
that's still happening in the future.
The arrow is pointing that way.
That'll be in Nob
Hill tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
Where can you come and ask us questions?
Many or most of us will be in the future.
We'll be in the Graphics
and Media Lab starting
tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
Where we'll have a lab specifically
about delivering media in web apps.
But following hard upon that,
there is a lab that's specifically
about delivering video to iPhone.
At the same time,
starting at 10.30 tomorrow is
the QuickTime Video Lab runs
all the way till 3.
I'll be there for the whole time.
Come ask me questions then.
In addition,
if you want hands-on experience
with Podcast Producer,
their lab is tomorrow at 3.30 p.m.
And finally,
more information about the use of
Final Cut Pro and the full suite
of tools available in that package,
Friday at 2,
back in the Graphics and Media Lab.
So,
that was an information-packed session.
I hope I raised questions in your minds
about video preparation and delivery.
What can you do that you didn't even
think you could do before you came in?
Come ask us how and we'll help
you develop the things that you
want to develop for the future.
Start tomorrow morning in the lab.